what was that on your arm
a bee great not exactly a pleasant
feeling
painful itchy annoying scary we've all
been there before
so that happens because the bee jabs its
barbed singer into your skin
and releases some venom the venom
contains proteins that cause pain and
can affect your immune system and skin
cells
but that's nothing compared to what the
bee has to go through poor little thing
you'll be fine after a few hours but the
bee not so much
honey bees don't usually sting people
unless they feel threatened or if you
accidentally step on them
the problem is that after stinging you
the bee can't pull its barb stinger out
of your skin
the only way to get free is to leave the
stinger behind the stinger though
not just a sweet defense mechanism it
also contains part of the bee's
digestive tract
nerves and muscles that are
unfortunately essential for the bee to
function normally
so yep after losing all that this tiny
creature doesn't survive
yikes poor little bee apart from that
they're such cool animals they have five
eyes
two pairs of wings and six legs bees
have excellent survival instincts and
they've been around for a really long
time
130 million years and counting who knows
what ancient species they've stung
most bees in the hive are called worker
bees and the big cheese is called the
queen
she lays around 2 000 eggs per day sound
like a lot
well the average hive contains 50 000
bees and they disappear after just one
sting
i guess going through a painful and
itchy experience doesn't actually sound
that bad when you only have one bee on
your arm
imagine if you had the whole hive it may
seem like bees just aimlessly fly around
or use their vision to decide where they
go but these cool insects are pretty
organized and rely on a super complex
transport system
imagine planning a cross-country road
trip only this time there are no roads
i can't even make it to the gym without
my gps or if i stop at a burger joint on
the way there
but not bees they're way cooler than us
they use bee lines
well i call them that they're basically
a series of insect pathways bees tend to
follow through human towns or the
countryside
these pathways link every existing
wildlife area together
it's like a b railway system my favorite
bee is the buff-tailed bumblebee
it has an oval-shaped body covered in
dense hair and a brain the size of a
poppy seed
considering how small it is that's
really impressive how smart are they
scientists made an experiment where they
trained a bunch of them to play bee
soccer
they even learned how to score a goal in
return for a sweet sugary treat
unbelievable these same bees have
another amazing ability
they use their smelly footprints to
distinguish between the scents of
strangers
their own be relatives they can even
recognize their own scent
bumblebees we know your dirty little
secret you have smelly feet
and then there's the queen bee she's
unique in her colony
and her main task laying eggs people
often assume the queen is there to tell
the other
bees exactly what to do yeah not really
she does have a certain influence
but even without her the hive actually
functions pretty well
each bee has a job and knows its daily
functions and tasks
because of its instincts and the
chemical signals it senses and uses
so i guess no one needs to tell them how
to behave
those chemical signals are their way of
communicating oh and they know how to
shake it
they wiggle their bodies at specific
angles for a certain amount of time
that's how they send messages to each
other if something happens to the queen
bee
and she doesn't survive worker bees
create a new one yep they don't find one
but sort of raise a new one they choose
a young larva and feed the future
her majesty a special food called royal
jelly
that lucky larva can now grow into the
new queen
these are fast they can beat their wings
almost 200 times a second
those eight push-ups i can do in a
minute not sounding so impressive
each bee produces around one teaspoon of
honey in its lifetime to produce one
pound of honey
these have to fly the equivalent of one
whole time around the globe
these hard-working animals make around
100 million trips to about 200 million
flowers
to collect enough nectar for that pound
of honey honeybees sleep
five to eight hours a day and just like
us they rest at night
their brains are pretty active when
they're resting some scientists think
they may be dreaming
also just like us when winter rolls
around a lot of insects replace their
body water with a special chemical
called glycerol
it's a type of natural antifreeze that
helps them stay alive in low
temperatures
bees though they just huddle together in
the hive to stay toasty warm
alright enough about these let's whip
around the animal kingdom looking for
crazy facts
bats could eat a thousand insects an
hour if they were insanely hungry
they're the only mammal that can fly and
their bones are so thin
most of them can't even walk insects for
the most part don't have ears on their
heads
instead they have them all over their
bodies snails can sleep for three years
without waking up
slugs have four noses so they better
avoid those stinky feet bumble bees
butterflies are quite simple and
practical animals that taste with their
feet
and only feed on liquids they're
cold-blooded so if it gets below 55
degrees they can't fly look for food
or escape a sticky situation their main
defense tactic is camouflage
works pretty well until it gets cold the
opposite strategy is having vibrant
colorful patterns that let everyone know
where you are
colorful insects are often toxic so
birds and bigger insects tend to leave
them alone
wasps recognize their relatives by
identifying unique facial patterns
ants don't have lungs instead they
breathe through small holes all over
their bodies
also they almost never sleep but they do
love to nap
ants are incredibly strong and can carry
more than 50 times their own weight
if you were that strong you'd be able to
carry an adult elephant
you know like if it's stepping on your
toe and you want to get it off you
for every human there are more than a
million ants and over 200 million
insects
luckily they're smaller than us if they
weren't we'd be the ants
you can hypnotize a frog if you place it
on its back and gently stroke its
stomach with your fingers
what if that worked on humans hey wanna
hang out
i know a sloth does its weird biology
allows it to spend
most of its life just hanging upside
down from a tree
a sloth is so slow it takes around a
month to totally digest food
rhinos have horns made out of the same
stuff as hair
scientists trained pigeons to be able to
tell the difference between famous
artists claude monet
and pablo picasso okay wait even pigeons
are smarter than me now
just when you think pandas can't get any
cuter check this out
when they're born pandas weigh around 4
ounces and are smaller than a mouse
animals that have a super fast
metabolism inside a small body like
squirrels do
see in slow motion they evolve this
feature to be able to escape bigger
animals
that's cool when you think about it it
really makes them powerful
squirrels usually run away from their
enemies by scampering off in a zigzag
pattern
because no idea sorry people they tend
to bird their food in many different
places
since it's impossible to keep an eye on
all their hiding spots
other animals like to sneak over and
steal their goods that's why squirrels
sometimes only pretend to bury their
food somewhere to throw off any
potential thieves
oh how nutty of them an ostrich has a
brain smaller than its eye
but it has really strong legs it can run
faster than a horse
flamingos only eat when their heads are
turned upside down